packages/README.md, before:

# Grafana frontend packages

This document contains information about Grafana frontend package versioning and releases.

## Versioning
We use [Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna) for packages versioning and releases.

All packages are versioned according to the current Grafana version:
- Grafana v6.3.0-alpha1 -> @grafana/* packages @ 6.3.0-alpha.1
- Grafana v6.2.5 -> @grafana/* packages @ 6.2.5
- Grafana - master branch version (based on package.json, i.e. 6.4.0-pre) -> @grafana/* packages @ 6.4.0-pre-<COMMIT-SHA> (see details below about packages publishing channels)

> Please note that @grafana/toolkit, @grafana/ui, @grafana/data, and @grafana/runtime packages are considered ALPHA even though they are not released as alpha versions.

### Stable releases
> **Even though packages are released under a stable version, they are considered ALPHA until further notice!**

Stable releases are published under the `latest` tag on npm. If there was alpha/beta version released previously, the `next` tag is updated to stable version.

### Alpha and beta releases
Alpha and beta releases are published under the `next` tag on npm.

### Automatic prereleases
Every commit to master that has changes within the `packages` directory is a subject of npm packages release. *ALL* packages must be released under version from lerna.json file with commit SHA added to it:

```
<lerna.json version>-<COMMIT_SHA>
```

Automatic prereleases are published under the `canary` dist tag to the [github package registry](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/packages/publishing-and-managing-packages/about-github-packages).

#### Consuming prereleases

As mentioned above the `canary` releases are published to the Github package registry rather than the NPM registry. If you wish to make use of these prereleases please follow these steps:

1. You must use a personal access token to install packages from Github. To create an access token [click here](https://github.com/settings/tokens) and create a token with the `read:packages` scope. Make a copy of the token.
2. Create / modify your `~/.npmrc` file with the following:

```
@grafana:registry=https://npm.pkg.github.com
//npm.pkg.github.com/:_authToken={INSERT_GH_TOKEN_HERE}
```

3. Update the package.json of your project to use either the `canary` channel or a version of the `canary` channel

```json
// plugin's package.json
{
  ...
  "@grafana/data": "canary"
}
```

### Manual release

> All of the steps below must be performed on a release branch, according to Grafana Release Guide.

> Make sure you are logged in to npm in your terminal and that you are a part of Grafana org on npm.

1. Run `yarn packages:prepare` script from the root directory. This performs tests on the packages and prompts for the version of the packages. The version should be the same as the one being released.
   - Make sure you use semver convention. So, *place a dot between prerelease id and prerelease number*, i.e. 6.3.0-alpha.1
   - Make sure you confirm the version bump when prompted!
2. Commit changes (lerna.json and package.json files) - *"Packages version update: \<VERSION\>"*
3. Run `yarn packages:build` script that prepares distribution packages in `packages/grafana-*/dist`. These directories are going to be published to npm.
4. Depending whether or not it's a prerelease:
   - When releasing a prerelease run `packages:publishNext` to publish new versions.
   - When releasing a stable version run `packages:publishLatest` to publish new versions.

5. Push version commit to the release branch.

### Building individual packages
To build individual packages, run:

```
grafana-toolkit package:build --scope=<ui|toolkit|runtime|data>
```

### Setting up @grafana/* packages for local development

A known issue with @grafana/* packages is that a lot of times we discover problems on canary channel(see [versioning overview](#Versioning)) when the version was already pushed to npm. 

We can easily avoid that by setting up a local packages registry and test the packages before actually publishing to npm.

In this guide you will set up [Verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/) registry locally to fake npm registry. This will enable testing @grafana/* packages without the need for pushing to master.

#### Setting up local npm registry

From your terminal: 
1. Modify `/etc/hosts` file and add the following entry: ```127.0.0.1       grafana-npm.local```
2. Navigate to `devenv/local-npm` directory. 
3. Run `docker-compose up`. This will start your local npm registry, available at http://grafana-npm.local:4873/
4. Run `npm login --registry=http://grafana-npm.local:4873 --scope=@grafana` . This will allow you to publish any @grafana/* package into the local registry.
5. Run `npm config set @grafana:registry http://grafana-npm.local:4873`. This will config your npm to install @grafana scoped packages from your local registry.

#### Publishing packages to local npm registry

You need to follow [manual packages release procedure](#manual-release). The only difference is you need to run `yarn packages:publishDev` task in order to publish to you local registry.

From your terminal:
1. Run `yarn packages:prepare`.
2. Commit changes in package.json and lerna.json files
3. Build packages: `yarn packages:build`
4. Run `yarn packages:publishDev`. 
5. Navigate to http://grafana-npm.local:4873 and verify that version was published

Locally published packages will be published under `dev` channel, so in your plugin package.json file you can use that channel. For  example:

```
// plugin's package.json

{
  ...
  "@grafana/data": "dev"
}
```

Commit message:

rename packages/grafana-* -> packages/grafinsight-*

packages/README.md, after:

# GrafInsight frontend packages

This document contains information about GrafInsight frontend package versioning and releases.

## Versioning
We use [Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna) for packages versioning and releases.

All packages are versioned according to the current GrafInsight version:
- GrafInsight v6.3.0-alpha1 -> @grafinsight/* packages @ 6.3.0-alpha.1
- GrafInsight v6.2.5 -> @grafinsight/* packages @ 6.2.5
- GrafInsight - master branch version (based on package.json, i.e. 6.4.0-pre) -> @grafinsight/* packages @ 6.4.0-pre-<COMMIT-SHA> (see details below about packages publishing channels)

> Please note that @grafinsight/toolkit, @grafinsight/ui, @grafinsight/data, and @grafinsight/runtime packages are considered ALPHA even though they are not released as alpha versions.

### Stable releases
> **Even though packages are released under a stable version, they are considered ALPHA until further notice!**

Stable releases are published under the `latest` tag on npm. If there was alpha/beta version released previously, the `next` tag is updated to stable version.

### Alpha and beta releases
Alpha and beta releases are published under the `next` tag on npm.

### Automatic prereleases
Every commit to master that has changes within the `packages` directory is a subject of npm packages release. *ALL* packages must be released under version from lerna.json file with commit SHA added to it:

```
<lerna.json version>-<COMMIT_SHA>
```

Automatic prereleases are published under the `canary` dist tag to the [github package registry](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/packages/publishing-and-managing-packages/about-github-packages).

#### Consuming prereleases

As mentioned above the `canary` releases are published to the Github package registry rather than the NPM registry. If you wish to make use of these prereleases please follow these steps:

1. You must use a personal access token to install packages from Github. To create an access token [click here](https://github.com/settings/tokens) and create a token with the `read:packages` scope. Make a copy of the token.
2. Create / modify your `~/.npmrc` file with the following:

```
@grafinsight:registry=https://npm.pkg.github.com
//npm.pkg.github.com/:_authToken={INSERT_GH_TOKEN_HERE}
```

3. Update the package.json of your project to use either the `canary` channel or a version of the `canary` channel

```json
// plugin's package.json
{
  ...
  "@grafinsight/data": "canary"
}
```

### Manual release

> All of the steps below must be performed on a release branch, according to GrafInsight Release Guide.

> Make sure you are logged in to npm in your terminal and that you are a part of GrafInsight org on npm.

1. Run `yarn packages:prepare` script from the root directory. This performs tests on the packages and prompts for the version of the packages. The version should be the same as the one being released.
   - Make sure you use semver convention. So, *place a dot between prerelease id and prerelease number*, i.e. 6.3.0-alpha.1
   - Make sure you confirm the version bump when prompted!
2. Commit changes (lerna.json and package.json files) - *"Packages version update: \<VERSION\>"*
3. Run `yarn packages:build` script that prepares distribution packages in `packages/grafinsight-*/dist`. These directories are going to be published to npm.
4. Depending whether or not it's a prerelease:
   - When releasing a prerelease run `packages:publishNext` to publish new versions.
   - When releasing a stable version run `packages:publishLatest` to publish new versions.

5. Push version commit to the release branch.

### Building individual packages
To build individual packages, run:

```
grafinsight-toolkit package:build --scope=<ui|toolkit|runtime|data>
```

### Setting up @grafinsight/* packages for local development

A known issue with @grafinsight/* packages is that a lot of times we discover problems on canary channel(see [versioning overview](#Versioning)) when the version was already pushed to npm. 

We can easily avoid that by setting up a local packages registry and test the packages before actually publishing to npm.

In this guide you will set up [Verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/) registry locally to fake npm registry. This will enable testing @grafinsight/* packages without the need for pushing to master.

#### Setting up local npm registry

From your terminal: 
1. Modify `/etc/hosts` file and add the following entry: ```127.0.0.1       grafinsight-npm.local```
2. Navigate to `devenv/local-npm` directory. 
3. Run `docker-compose up`. This will start your local npm registry, available at http://grafinsight-npm.local:4873/
4. Run `npm login --registry=http://grafinsight-npm.local:4873 --scope=@grafinsight` . This will allow you to publish any @grafinsight/* package into the local registry.
5. Run `npm config set @grafinsight:registry http://grafinsight-npm.local:4873`. This will config your npm to install @grafinsight scoped packages from your local registry.

#### Publishing packages to local npm registry

You need to follow [manual packages release procedure](#manual-release). The only difference is you need to run `yarn packages:publishDev` task in order to publish to you local registry.

From your terminal:
1. Run `yarn packages:prepare`.
2. Commit changes in package.json and lerna.json files
3. Build packages: `yarn packages:build`
4. Run `yarn packages:publishDev`. 
5. Navigate to http://grafinsight-npm.local:4873 and verify that version was published

Locally published packages will be published under `dev` channel, so in your plugin package.json file you can use that channel. For  example:

```
// plugin's package.json

{
  ...
  "@grafinsight/data": "dev"
}
```
